Gaussian wrapper Bash scripts.


## g09template.sh

Converts a batch of molecular definition files [e.g. xyz coordinates or z-matrix] to g09 input files, according to a template specified by the user. 

Also generates a script file to run all the calculations.

Usage:

        ./g09template.sh template molecule1 [molecule2 ...] [-n number-of-processors] [-s script-file-name] 

See [`template-sample-opt.gjf`](template-sample-opt.gjf) for a sample template. Basically, the template defines the model chemistry, basis sets, optimization, etc., that you want to apply to all the molecules.

How to write a template:

 1. Write a file as if it's a normal g09 input file. Define model chemistry, basis set, optimization, multistep, etc.

 2. Put `!chkfile!` for the line for checkpoint file name.

 3. Put `!nprocs!` for the line for number of CPUs.

 4. Put `!title!` for a line to get a copy of the file name.

 5. Put `!coordinates!` where the molecule definition should appear.
 
 6. You can put the line for charge, multiplicity, fragments, etc., in either the template or the molecule files.
 

For example, supposing you have in current directory the script, the template, as well as 3 molecule files `mol-a.xyz`, `mol-b.xyz` and `mol-c.zmat`, which are generated by [Avogadro](http://avogadro.cc) or Chem3D), you can run:

        ./g09template.sh template-sample-opt.gjf mol* -n 8
        
        
And it generates auto-named files like `mol-a.xyz_template-sample-opt.gjf`. The checkpoint files will be named accordingly. The script file is unspecified so it will be automatically named `g09_template-sample-opt.gjf.sh`, and made executable.

## g17run.bash

For use in [Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center](https://psc.edu/). Submits a job and monitors the job, sending an email to designated address when the job is finished (i.e. out of the queue).

Usage:

        g17run.bash input-file [email-address]
        
Take care to edit the paramters at the start of the script.

## g09run.sh

Runs a g09 calculation, and emails the last 10 lines of log when finished. Requires e.g. postfix, exim or sendmail.

Usage:

        g09run.sh input-file [email-address]
